1st house - Ascendant (ASC)
Physical personality
Ascendant (ASC) - Symbolizes basic personality traits such as physical appearance, temperament, behaviour, relationship to life and the first impression the person gives.

Ascendant in Capricorn (Capricorn ruler is Saturn)
People with Capricorn Ascendant must first become aware of their two opposing sides. One is obedience and performing their duties properly. They need to manage energy well and this requires discipline and self-control. They must achieve some social prestige and recognition. The other side is the ability to organize practical matters and achieve their goals, and also the ability to enjoy sensual pleasures. ... more -»

The ruler of the Ascendant - Saturn
These people tend to act slowly and with caution. They avoid any kind of control. They love solitude and they hate crowds. They want to stand out and isolate themselves from others. Their actions will be valued in time. They may become politicians, consultants, engineers etc. Their main feature is endurance.

The ruler of the Ascendant (Saturn) in Capricorn
These people raise slowly but steadily without others noticing. Their actions are not glamorous, but they are creditable and constructive. They push through in accordance with time.

The ruler of the Ascendant (Saturn) in the 12th House
These people are predestined to hide and run away from themselves, to subject themselves to illusions, and to closing themselves to others. They have a rich inner life. Social life may be the cause of some life test. Self-punishment and self-destruction may occur.

Planets in the 1st House
There is no planet.

Ascendant aspects
Square Moon (3°22’, Separating)
Trine Jupiter (6°26’, Separating)
Contra-Parallel Mercury (0°12’)

10th house - Medium Coeli (MC)
Career, prestige and reputation
Medium Coeli (MC) - Symbolizes social status, career, reputation, honours, fame, success, authoritative personality, father.

10th house in Libra (Libra ruler is Venus)
People with Libra on the tenth house cusp often have their own business or they work together with their partner. They may also work on a project together with other people. When these people do their job, they seem very professional. They are calm, prudent, kind, and tactful when they are working. They are also cultured and organised so they can become supervisors or administrators. The best and most objective aspects of their personality are revealed when they communicate with the public.

The ruler of the 10th House (Venus) in the 5th House
Career of these people is related to entertainment, games or theatre. There is a possibility of creative activity in their profession. These people love their job and they often have authority in this area.

Planets in the 10th House
Pluto

MC aspects
Trine Sun (2°55’, Applying)
Opposition Moon (8°14’, Applying)

Interpretations - Planets in Signs, Planets in Houses
Planets describe a certain process of what is happening - eg. Mars fights, Saturn limits, Jupiter expands..
Sign in which the planet is located determines how the planet is manifesting itself, for example Mars may manifest itself in a way Aries would behave (vigorously and irritably) or in the manner of Taurus (more slowly, gradually and consistently)
Houses show special areas of everyday life, in which all this takes place. Location in a house shows whether, for example Mars manifests in relationships (7th house), employment (6th house), family (4th house) or elsewhere.
Hint:
Planets show us what is happening;
Signs show us how it is happening;
Houses show us where it is happening.
Planets:

 Sun - Self, individuality, personality
The Sun symbolizes a personal identity. It shows us areas where the person should learn to be independent, where he should fulfill his potential, differentiate himself from others and shine. The position of the Sun may tell us which profession would best suit the character of a person.

Sun in Gemini
People born under the sign of Gemini are people of many talents and they are able to use their skills in both theory and practice. They are very intelligent and quick-witted people who are interested in everything that happen around them, and they can quickly adapt to any new situation. They are open to all novel things in the world, because they can quickly see their advantages. They try to show these novel things to others so that they can also benefit from them. But more conservative people often do not have an understanding for this. They are sociable people that have representative personalities and they can inspire and influence others with their innate charm and vigour. more -»

Sun in the 5th House
The Sun in the fifth house creates very creative people with a very strong desire for self-expression. It can be art, development or fertility. These people need others to notice and appreciate them. They may have a tendency to brag or they at least try to look their best. They are happy and merry people that have many friends. They may be a bit childish and sometimes they try to be more mature and subtle in order not to be so theatrical or selfish. The Sun in the fifth house gives people considerable amount of self-confidence. These people often focus on their own children or on children in general. They tend to spoil children or they pass their dreams on to them.

Sun aspects
Sextile Moon (5°18’, Separating)
Conjunction Mercury (4°47’, Applying)
Conjunction Venus (4°45’, Applying)
Square Mars (7°41’, Separating)
Trine MC (2°55’, Applying)
Square Node (0°40’, Separating)
Parallel Venus (0°10’)
Contra-Parallel Saturn (0°43’)
Contra-Parallel Uranus (0°38’)
Contra-Parallel Neptune (0°53’)

 Moon - Emotions, instincts, roots, mother
Place in the horoscope where the Moon is tells us what gives the person a sense of security, and where to find it. It describes how sensitive we are and how we instinctively interact with our surroundings. The Moon also tells us about our childhood and our experiences with our mother.

Third Quarter Moon (Waning Moon)
(305°18’ Moon Phase Degree)
Reality check, Revision, Integration, Cleansing

Moon in Aries
The feeling of uncertainty can make you solve problems faster then is natural. Do not rush as if there was a deadline. Try to slow down so that you can decide what you want to do and proceed at your own comfortable pace. more -»

Moon in the 4th House
The Moon in the fourth house means a strong connection with home - not only the house where people live, but also with home in a broader sense - with their country, traditions, nature etc. These people usually have the need to feel a connection with the past and they are interested in things like antiques or their family tree. They often remain under the strong influence of their parents. The Moon in the fourth house indicates that they want to distance themselves from the reality and they have subjectivist inclinations. These people may be insecure. Their nature needs stable and reliable roots.

Moon aspects
Sextile Sun (5°18’, Separating)
Sextile Mercury (0°31’, Separating)
Sextile Venus (0°33’, Separating)
Trine Saturn (5°22’, Applying)
Trine Uranus (4°49’, Applying)
Square Ascendant (3°22’, Separating)
Opposition MC (8°14’, Applying)

 Mercury - Thinking, communication, intellect, learning
Mercury is the planet that brings us interest in intellectual things, about teaching and learning. It also indicates into what depth we want to study things. It gives us natural intelligence and the ability to analyse and reproduce.

Mercury in Gemini
People with Mercury in Gemini have young minds and they are full of energy. They want to discover new things, move from one argument to another, try different hobbies and work, and have discussions with interesting people. They will usually try many different jobs, and do all these jobs with enthusiasm and commitment. These people are also talented public speakers. It can be said that Mercury feels well in all air signs, but it can be a bit shallow in them - these people do not like to study things into the greatest detail. Air, the ruling element that is definitely not a solid substance, is responsible for this, probably only one, shortcoming.

Mercury in the 5th House
Mercury in the fifth house represents a connection with the house of creativity and children. This position usually means artistic and creative talents and good ability to express thoughts orally. These people have the ability to express themselves dramatically and powerfully and they are talented teachers and actors. They are mentally competitive and require mental activity. Mercury in the fifth house also indicates business activities and investments. It creates a character that may have a critical and analytical attitude towards personal relationships and life.

Mercury aspects
Conjunction Sun (4°47’, Applying)
Sextile Moon (0°31’, Separating)
Conjunction Venus (0°01’, Separating)
Opposition Saturn (5°54’, Separating)
Opposition Uranus (5°21’, Separating)
Square Node (5°27’, Applying)
Contra-Parallel Ascendant (0°12’)

 Venus - Sensuality, love, harmony, pleasure
Venus symbolizes attractivity. Sign in which Venus is tells us what we are attracted to and this enables us to give or receive love and affection, beauty and happiness, values and principles. The negative side is that it represents weakness and shallowness.

Venus in Gemini
Gemini is a sign of youth, and these people have a strong urge to prevent stagnation and maintain flexibility in their relationships. They believe that relationship without freedom is deemed to fail. Venus in the Gemini can be more compared with love bud rather than love in a full bloom, so it must be given the opportunity to bloom. These people like diversity and they have a spark that is here to illuminate their love and their beloved partner. People with Venus in Gemini typically make friends and acquaintances easily. They like to meet people. Sexual and family relationships are their "heart", but diverse social relationships are their "lungs" that breathe life into their being.

Venus in the 5th House
Venus in the fifth house causes attraction to the opposite sex. It creates romantic and popular people who love life. This position of Venus also brings popularity among children, so these people usually become excellent parents. They get along with young people and relationships with them will benefit them in some way; they will probably provide services to young people or they will work with them. They are creative people who often have the potential to become successful actors.

Venus aspects
Conjunction Sun (4°45’, Applying)
Sextile Moon (0°33’, Separating)
Conjunction Mercury (0°01’, Separating)
Opposition Saturn (5°56’, Separating)
Opposition Uranus (5°23’, Separating)
Square Node (5°25’, Applying)
Parallel Sun (0°10’)
Contra-Parallel Saturn (0°53’)
Contra-Parallel Uranus (0°28’)
Contra-Parallel Neptune (1°03’)

 Mars - Activity, energy, courage, assertiveness
Mars symbolizes the need to get what we want. This means our driving force which includes sex drive, initiative and courage. Mars tells us about our desires, sensuality, courage and will. It also tells us about how we are able to overcome obstacles and how active we are.

Mars in Pisces
Mars in Pisces gives people the opportunity to work in professions where one does not come into direct contact with the public but exercises his authority in a detached workplace. These people can work for example as detectives, prison wardens or doctors in hospitals. They may also work in desolate places, for example on oil rigs. People with Mars in Pisces get what they want by delicate or indirect means. They tend to have secret love affairs and they can successfully hide such relationship from the public eye. Their actions are affected by strong emotional undercurrents and if they do not want them to negatively influence their efforts to reach their goals they have to figure out what these emotional undercurrents mean.

Mars in the 2nd House
Mars in the second house suggests a person who is looking for material and financial gains and who is successful in this area. They have energy that drives them to make money but at the same time forces them to spend everything they earn. They need to learn to control their financial situation which is hard for them because they have no natural talent for it. These people are competitive in business and financial matters and they often run their own business. They are not afraid of taking risks in this area and they are determined to reach their goals.

Mars aspects
Square Sun (7°41’, Separating)
Sextile Neptune (2°16’, Separating)
Trine Pluto (1°26’, Separating)

 Jupiter - Happiness, optimism, expansion
Jupiter symbolizes growth, expansion, laws, faith and ethics that guide it. It represents a sense for development and support, which can lead to opportunities, wealth and faith. However, if Jupiter is damaged, the person becomes immoral and extremist.

Jupiter in Taurus
People with Jupiter in Taurus believe in the importance of financial security and social status, and the comfort these values provide. To a greater or lesser extent, they are capable of attracting wealth in some way. Jupiter in Taurus brings the question of what to do with money. Growth through stabilisation means that the improvement of material conditions is closely related to the understanding that stability is a natural state and it is maintained by allowing resources to flow in as well as out. If people with Jupiter in Taurus understand this wisdom, they will likely find themselves in a managerial position or they will become asset managers or someone who is responsible for the growth of somebody´s assets.

Jupiter in the 4th House
Jupiter in the fourth house means that this planet of development and expansion will play an important role in the home and family of these people who will be under the influence of their parents until they are quite old. Parents, especially mothers, take good care of them, help them and give them good manners and education. This will result in high quality education and advantages in their social life. The life of these people will be full and happy, especially in later life.

Jupiter aspects
Trine Ascendant (6°26’, Separating)
Sextile Node (2°54’, Separating)

 Saturn - Restriction, order, maturity, time
Saturn is our strict teacher who is able to ruthlessly examine our maturity. However, it is not only the despot, but also the archetype of the sage who uses pain as a means to get our attention on what we should focus on and what we should continue to develop.

Saturn in Capricorn
People with Saturn in Capricorn keep track of their goals with unquenchable determination regardless of time and they can be compared to the Rock of Gibraltar without exaggeration. In spite of all the obstacles and failures, they eventually achieve great success and they are respected by others. People with Saturn in Capricorn have to learn to know their place. These people tend to succumb to what society expects from people of their social status, class, belief, race etc. Yet, a compensatory reaction may occur, that is, they may want to avoid and resist all that is expected of them on the basis of their social status, class or race, and they do not want to be put in a box.

Saturn in the 12th House
Saturn in the twelfth house suggests work in the background, usually in a large organisation. These people usually do not achieve recognition for their abilities and results. They usually doubt their abilities and long for solitude. They are usually loners who lack self-confidence.

Saturn aspects
Trine Moon (5°22’, Applying)
Opposition Mercury (5°54’, Separating)
Opposition Venus (5°56’, Separating)
Conjunction Uranus (0°32’, Applying)
Contra-Parallel Sun (0°43’)
Contra-Parallel Venus (0°53’)
Parallel Neptune (0°10’)

 Uranus - Originality, freedom, revolution
Uranus is the power of awakening, which often means that there will be some disruption and change. Events under the influence of Uranus are unexpected or unpredictable, forcing us to do things in a new way and face the truth about this or that issue.

Uranus in Sagittarius
(Note: Uranus is a slow transpersonal planet and may remain in a single sign for up to many years. The description of Uranus in Sagittarius is therefore valid for the entire generation of people and is very general. The characteristic of the personality is in the description of Uranus in the 12th house.)
People with Uranus in Sagittarius strive for spiritual progress and intellectual growth. They often have revolutionary thoughts. They see other races as equals and they often fight against xenophobia. They love flying and they consider expeditions to space very exciting. They bring new directions to philosophy. They are optimistic and they tend to make unexpected and unplanned journeys to other countries.

Uranus in the 12th House
Uranus in the twelfth house suggests volatility and changes in the subconscious mind. It can mean a subconscious feeling of imprisonment or a desire for liberation and independence. These people like to spend time alone so they often find a job where they can work independently. They are gifted researchers who may have a good mental potential. They need to accept life as it is and stop subconsciously being in the opposition.

Uranus aspects
Trine Moon (4°49’, Applying)
Opposition Mercury (5°21’, Separating)
Opposition Venus (5°23’, Separating)
Conjunction Saturn (0°32’, Applying)
Contra-Parallel Sun (0°38’)
Contra-Parallel Venus (0°28’)

 Neptune - Fantasy, illusion, spirituality, imagination
Neptune is called the Lord of the Invisible Empire, which is a mysterious name of a mysterious planet. Perhaps we could describe it as a dimension of life that cannot be experienced by our five senses and we can only understand and perceive it in our imagination.

Neptune in Capricorn
(Note: Neptune is a slow transpersonal planet and may remain in a single sign for up to many years. The description of Neptune in Capricorn is therefore valid for the entire generation of people and is very general. The characteristic of the personality is in the description of Neptune in the 12th house.)
Neptune in Capricorn gives people determination and the ability to concentrate. However, it can ruin their typical Capricorn rationality. This position somewhat shatters their natural desire for perfection, but it gives people desire to achieve spiritual goals.

Neptune in the 12th House
Neptune in the twelfth house affects the unconscious mind. Sometimes it causes fears and difficulties with problems that spring from the past. These people have the tendency to focus on the wrong side of life. They often display great empathy towards physically or mentally handicapped people. Neptune in the twelfth house suggests people who focus on their own soul and avoid everyday affairs.

Neptune aspects
Sextile Mars (2°16’, Separating)
Sextile Pluto (0°50’, Separating)
Contra-Parallel Sun (0°53’)
Contra-Parallel Venus (1°03’)
Parallel Saturn (0°10’)

 Pluto - Transformation, regeneration, power
Pluto is the planet of death and rebirth. It is the end of all things, it is the Judgment Day. It can give rise to obsessions or convictions. On the dark end of its spectrum it can manifest as "succumbing to the urge," or it can create an individual who has the ability to get to the core of things, destroy negative things and bring on healing and transformation.

Pluto in Scorpio
(Note: Pluto is a slow transpersonal planet and may remain in a single sign for up to many years. The description of Pluto in Scorpio is therefore valid for the entire generation of people and is very general. The characteristic of the personality is in the description of Pluto in the 10th house.)
People with Pluto in Scorpio have a passionate desire for mystery. They like to use intrigues and they have a great disposition for personal transformation that can happen especially through their desires. They are prolific, universal and capable. They radiate occult powers. Their sexuality is also transforming for them, but at the same time they can feel restricted by it.

Pluto in the 10th House
Pluto in the tenth house suggests a person who has a strong will and need to achieve success in his career. Pluto in this house suggests a career in a scientific field, in healing or medicine, or in a profession where one can deal with powerful individuals, for example politics. This planet will cause changes and interruptions in business or occupational matters.

Pluto aspects
Trine Mars (1°26’, Separating)
Sextile Neptune (0°50’, Separating)

Objects:

 Lunar Nodes - North Node and South Node
The Lunar Nodes aren’t planets, but rather astrology mathematical points, that are directly opposite each other in the chart. It is said, that your life purpose is encoded between them - in the line between North Node and South Node. The South Node indicates your comfort zone, your habitual place, while your North Node shows life lessons and what you’re striving for in this lifetime. Both Lunar Nodes are almost always retrogade.

North Node (Mean) in Pisces - South Node in Virgo
North Node in Pisces brings the conflict between transcendental effort and everyday reality, between chaos and order, and between spirituality and reason.
These people need to open up to their spirituality and imagination. They need to escape the constraints of the usual and explainable and be open to the unusual and unexplainable. They need to go beyond the rational and analytical, develop imaginative powers and spiritual awareness. They should stop working so hard and find time for themselves. They should learn to make self-sacrifice and show love for other people.
Beware of morbid obsession with order, cleanliness and rejection of everything that is not in perfect order or cannot be explained.

North Node (Mean) in the 3rd House - South Node in the 9th House
North Node in the third house brings the conflict between seeking objectivity and lively communication on the one hand, and clinging to a highly subjective understanding, firmly anchored opinions and commands on the other.
These people need to learn how to express complex contexts and ideas in everyday language, how to convey spiritual thinking into practical life, transfer it in comprehensible form and show clearly the connection between the philosophical and noble knowledge and values of everyday life.
Beware of prejudices and stubborn beliefs.

Node (Mean) aspects
Square Sun (0°40’, Separating)
Square Mercury (5°27’, Applying)
Square Venus (5°25’, Applying)
Sextile Jupiter (2°54’, Separating)

 Lilith - Black Moon - Fascination and Denial
Lilith is a fictional point - the second empty focal point of elliptical orbit of the Moon around the Earth.
In mythology, Lilith refused to submit to Adam, rebelled against the connection between Adam and Eve, decided to escape from the world of people and made a connection with Satan.
In astrology, Lilith symbolizes either fascination or refusal of topics with which she is connected with. Both, the fascination or the rejection of the given topics, can eventually engulf the person and take him "away" from the human world.

Lilith (Mean) in Virgo
Rebellion against order; provocative humour.
Their sensuality is strongly suppressed by trying to appear calm; emotional conflicts often occur because it is very difficult for these people to feel relaxed. They want to suppress their instincts or they appear to be cold and perverted.
Beware of alcoholism and surgery of the intestines.

Lilith (Mean) in the 8th House
Tendency to ask questions about death or an obsession with death.
 Chiron - Wounded Healer, inner teacher
Chiron is an asteroid between Saturn and Uranus. Its orbit is very unusual and represents a bridge between material and spiritual worlds.
According to mythology, Chiron was a great healer, wise teacher and one of the immortal Centaurs. Unfortunately, he was "deadly" injured by a poisonous arrow by Heracles, his favourite disciple. He was suffering in great pain but he could not die. Finally, he gave up his immortality for the benefit of Prometheus who was also suffering, and Chiron was sent to the underworld. In the underworld Zeus had mercy for him and he raised him to the heaven.
In astrology, Chiron symbolizes our unhealable injuries and incurable trauma. However, if a person, instead of drowning in his own trauma, is able to accept the trauma and help others who are also suffering, and accept that suffering is part of life, then Chiron may be the key to wisdom, or even to some sort of "Initiation Gate".

Chiron in Gemini
Without success, these people keep trying to explain to other what they wanted to say, what they said and what they meant by it. They either believe that nobody listens to them, or that no matter how hard they try, others cannot understand them or do not want to understand them. The more they try to correct this misunderstanding, the more this sense of misunderstanding that they can never overcome hurts them.

Chiron in the 6th House
These people are sick all their life; their illnesses are not too serious, but they are chronic and it seems that they cannot be cured, especially when both medical professionals and traditional healers cannot give the correct diagnosis. It is as if these people took all the illness of others on themselves and had no choice but to learn to live with their health problems and keep searching for new ways to cure them or at least to alleviate the symptoms. But there is always the fear that once one illness is cured, another, more serious illness will suddenly appear.
Main aspects
 Sun Sextile Moon (5°18’, Separating)
Emotions and feelings of the Moon are in harmony with ego and individuality of the Sun. This contributes to balance, relaxation and inner peace. This aspect also greatly increases the chance to find success and satisfaction in life. Relationships with the opposite sex are mostly balanced and harmonious.

 Sun Conjunction Mercury (4°47’, Applying)
There can only be conjunction between the Sun and Mercury. People with this aspect are subjective and creative; they can express their ideas well and they are often very artistic. This is a great aspect for artists who perform on stage. These people are intellectuals, but their thinking is very subjective and they can sometimes lack objectivity or the ability to see things from the outside.

 Sun Conjunction Venus (4°45’, Applying)
There can only be conjunction between the Sun and Venus. This aspect highlights feminine characteristics of both sexes. It also supports artistic and creative inclinations. These people are often optimistic and they enjoy the company of other people. They have a good taste for fashionable clothes.

 Sun Square Mars (7°41’, Separating)
This aspect give these people physical strength and the ability to work hard. However they tend to take unnecessary risks. They may also be too impulsive, easily excitable and selfish.

 Moon Sextile Mercury (0°31’, Separating)
This harmonious aspect give people good memory, poetic soul and the ability to understand others. It helps people to become good teachers, journalists and psychologists. These people are interested in their origin and roots and in environmental problems. They are often very intelligent.

 Moon Sextile Venus (0°33’, Separating)
This harmonious aspect gives people balanced temperament, charming manners and usually also good looks. Social success is almost guaranteed. These people have creative abilities and they need to create a pleasant home environment.

 Moon Trine Saturn (5°22’, Applying)
This harmonious aspect gives people emotional stability. In their home environment they often do things in a way they think is right. They are reliable, stable and helpful. However, sometimes they may be pedant.

 Moon Trine Uranus (4°49’, Applying)
This harmonious aspect brings people the need for considerable emotional independence and freedom in the family environment. These people often lead unconventional life and they do not like to yield to the will of others. They feel separated from society (complex of separation). They often experience stormy emotions and mood swings.

 Mercury Conjunction Venus (0°01’, Separating)
This conjunction gives people good manners and mental balance. They can express themselves well and they are convincing. Their views are also well-balanced. Their thinking is often so rational that they are not able to express their feelings too openly.

 Mercury Opposition Saturn (5°54’, Separating)
This aspect gives people serious, conservative and practical mental processes. However, these people also have the ability to calculate clearly and calmly, and this ability is often responsible for their success.

 Mercury Opposition Uranus (5°21’, Separating)
This aspect often brings extreme views and a strong need for independence. These people force their opinions, which are often extreme an unrealistic, on others with arrogance and reluctance to compromise. Their opinions are often way ahead and these people are inclined to get involved in movements that have views that may even be accepted in the future. They are curious and intelligent. They have novel way of thinking and they like to argue about opinions. Their creative activity is often destructive and it tends to be rebellious and chaotic.

 Venus Opposition Saturn (5°56’, Separating)
People with this aspect are responsible, reserved and hesitant. They also have restraints that are often the result of poor parenting or fear of other authorities. This also causes fear of loss - they are afraid to lose both their property and their loved ones. These people often submit their feelings to practicality (typical manifestation of this is getting married for security). They subconsciously fear unemployment and poverty.

 Venus Opposition Uranus (5°23’, Separating)
This aspect complicates any relationship because these people see relationships literally as a loss of personal freedom and integrity. They are mentally unstable and their feelings constantly change. They often get involved in great number of relationships throughout their life. They are unconventional, difficult to get along with, eccentric and original when they create art. They are just as unstable in their ways of dealing with money. They are adventurous and they lead unstable love life.

 Mars Sextile Neptune (2°16’, Separating)
This harmonious aspect manifests itself by giving people great fantasy, creativity, idealism and artistic talent. However, people with this aspect are very impractical. A typical image of people with this aspect is an artist who knows the entire world of culture but he or she is useless in his or her private life.

 Mars Trine Pluto (1°26’, Separating)
This aspect increases Mars' power, so these people are hardworking and very thorough in all their activities. However, they are also stubborn, and if they have a goal, they are not easily discouraged from trying to achieve it. This harmonious aspect is typical for army commanders and it gives them great talent for strategy. These people´s aim is to control both themselves and others. It is the only aspect that gives people the ability to achieve their objectives despite all possible obstacles.

 Saturn Conjunction Uranus (0°32’, Applying)
This conjunction gives people determination, originality, the ability to work hard, and the ability to find new solutions to all problems. These people have democratic ideals but they are often too authoritative.

 Neptune Sextile Pluto (0°50’, Separating)
This harmonious aspect is long-lasting and it affects peace-making attitudes. In connection with other aspects it further enhances peace-building and transformative actions on global scale.
Other aspects
 Ascendant Square Moon (3°22’, Separating)
This aspect can bring people instability and they may easily get influenced by others.

 Ascendant Trine Jupiter (6°26’, Separating)
The positive thing about this aspect is that these people are generous, kind and that they are usually in excellent health.

 MC Trine Sun (2°55’, Applying)
This aspect indicates the ability to succeed using own means or with the help of others.

 MC Opposition Moon (8°14’, Applying)
This aspect can bring instability in professional life and these people often have unstable professions.

 Node Square Sun (0°40’, Separating)
Frequent conflicts and tension among the demands of the Sun and the tasks of the lunar node that are waiting to be realised. For this reason the life path of these people is not clear. They are indecisive, chaotic and they have restraints.

 Node Square Mercury (5°27’, Applying)
The positive thing about this aspect is that it gives people intelligence and good life orientation. They enjoy searching for the background of their motives and they are able to critically and creatively deal with their personality. They are open towards others. They accept criticism easily and they do not avoid conflicts. They manage life challenges with the help of their analytical and logical thinking.
The negative side of this aspect is that these people may have poor focus on their life path. Their intellect always finds "good reasons" that stop them from focusing on a set goal. This is the reason why these people are often stubborn, have defensive attitudes and why they cling to things that put them at disadvantage.

 Node Square Venus (5°25’, Applying)
The positive thing about this aspect is that these people are often pleasant, graceful, sexy and affectionate. They can appreciate beauty and they like art. They have a good taste. This harmonious connection forms the focal point of their life and it helps them achieve their goals. They have somewhat feminine radiating power that is very valuable and deserves to be acknowledged and developed.
The negative side of this aspect is that it can be difficult for these people to find inner peace because their love life is in constant conflict with the direction of their life. They can experience feelings of unfulfillment and they may have great need for affection that is very hard to satisfy.

 Node Sextile Jupiter (2°54’, Separating)
The positive thing about this aspect is that these people are confident in their abilities and this helps them overcome challenges in life. Their life challenges are often connected with profound sensory experience and it gives people luck on their life journey.
Declination aspects - Parallels and Contra-Parallels
Parallels and Contra-Parallels are aspects, which refer to degrees of declination above or below the celestial equator.
Parallel is similar to a conjunction, but usually provides benefits.
Contra-Parallel is said to be similar to the opposition, but weaker.
Note: The following parallel and contra-parallel interpretations are the same as the interpretations used for the conjunction and opposition.
 Sun Parallel Venus (0°10’)
There can only be conjunction between the Sun and Venus. This aspect highlights feminine characteristics of both sexes. It also supports artistic and creative inclinations. These people are often optimistic and they enjoy the company of other people. They have a good taste for fashionable clothes.

 Sun Contra-Parallel Saturn (0°43’)
This aspect creates two groups of people. People in the first group tend to give up when they encounter problems. When people in the second group encounter problems they get stimulated by them and perform better. These people often have lower self-esteem that can be improved by good work.

 Sun Contra-Parallel Uranus (0°38’)
This aspect creates people that are too individualistic, selfish and eccentric. They are very independent and they guard their independence carefully. They are not always considerate towards other people and they sometimes suffer from mental exhaustion. These people have the need to be different and they want to show their uniqueness. They want to be teachers, mentors and examples to others. These people are willing to go to the extremes in order to show their originality. They have trouble accepting authorities. They use rebellion as means of attracting attention of other people.

 Sun Contra-Parallel Neptune (0°53’)
This aspect creates people that are overly empathetic and too willing to sacrifice themselves, and thus they may easily be used by others or cheated. These people should stay away from drugs, alcohol and tobacco because they have considerable tendencies to use drugs and alcohol to solve their problems.

 Venus Contra-Parallel Saturn (0°53’)
People with this aspect are responsible, reserved and hesitant. They also have restraints that are often the result of poor parenting or fear of other authorities. This also causes fear of loss - they are afraid to lose both their property and their loved ones. These people often submit their feelings to practicality (typical manifestation of this is getting married for security). They subconsciously fear unemployment and poverty.

 Venus Contra-Parallel Uranus (0°28’)
This aspect complicates any relationship because these people see relationships literally as a loss of personal freedom and integrity. They are mentally unstable and their feelings constantly change. They often get involved in great number of relationships throughout their life. They are unconventional, difficult to get along with, eccentric and original when they create art. They are just as unstable in their ways of dealing with money. They are adventurous and they lead unstable love life.

 Venus Contra-Parallel Neptune (1°03’)
This aspect causes considerable romantic feelings that complicate life and put these people into intricate situations. They often give priority to their own fantasies over reality. Esoteric activities sometimes become more important to them than the reality and take away considerable amounts of energy from the relationship. These people should try to be more rational and have "thick skin". They are usually very lazy. For artists, this aspect brings inspiration, creativity, imagination, and very good taste.

 Saturn Parallel Neptune (0°10’)
It is necessary to distinguish which of the two planets is dominant in this conjunction. If Saturn is dominant, then the person is able to keep his imagination under control and use it constructively to fulfill his dreams. However, if Neptune is dominant, then the fantasy is too vivid, and these people fail to fulfill their fantasies and they become frustrated. They start living in their fantasy world and they become practically useless. These people can experience great spiritual passion - they may expand their consciousness at all costs and use all possible means to achieve their goal (spiritual fanatics).

 Ascendant Contra-Parallel Mercury (0°12’)
The positive thing about this aspect is that it gives people vitality and curiosity. The negative side of this aspect is that it may cause distractibility and restlessness.
